[Music]
so did Megalodon definitely go extinct
huh
I sure hope so the ocean is vast and
filled with terrifying looking creatures
but the prehistoric Megalodon would put
them all to shame for over ten million
years the toothy megladon ruled the
world's waters and we're thanking our
lucky stars it doesn't exist today
while theories out there argue that
these bad boys of the ocean are still
around there's no doubt that they're
long gone and extinct still don't
believe it just get ready for a big dose
of scientific evidence meet the
Megalodon the largest shark ever
documented in earth's history the
Megalodon seems to be the stuff
nightmares are made of
or dreams if you love impressive
creatures that could use you as a
toothpick its full name is car careless
Megalodon but some shark enthusiasts
just call it the Meg whatever name it
goes by this giant was the biggest
baddie of the ocean when it terrorized
the waters 2 million years ago if you're
afraid of modern sharks get ready for
these facts because this prehistoric
predator puts them all to shame
the Megalodon was the biggest shark ever
we'll start with the obvious here this
shark species was the largest this
planet has ever seen
different estimates put its size
anywhere from 45 up to 60 feet in length
to put that into perspective
60 feet would make the Megalodon about
four times the size of the average great
white shark the Meg weighed up to 100
tons again for comparison the t-rex
weight of mere nine tons
the biggest shark living today is the
whale shark which can grow up to 40 feet
long so there's really no other shark
that can compare to the megalodons
massive size
we don't have many fossils of it today
there's currently a very limited amount
of Megalodon fossils shark skeletons are
made of cartilage which doesn't
fossilize very well so that means almost
all that remains of the mighty Meg are
its teeth which have been found on every
continent except for Asia and Antarctica
given that it's fossilized teeth are
everywhere
scientists have gathered that the
Megalodon traveled throughout the world
using these fossils as a guide
scientists have tried to put a picture
together of what this giant predator
actually looked like and how it lived
many of the fossils have been found on
shark-tooth Hill near Bakersfield
California this is a popular site where
people can dig for teeth while wearing
protective gloves although some shark
teeth have been buried for ages they can
still be sharp enough to cut through the
skin is speaking of teeth the Megalodon
had enormous teeth the name itself says
it all
Megalodon means big tooth most of its
teeth were about 4 to 5 inches long but
the largest tooth ever found was 7.48
inches and it was discovered in Peru
with a rare size like that these fossils
can be very valuable a seven-inch high
quality Megalodon tooth can be sold for
up to $50,000 but if you have a small
tooth in your collection don't expect to
get a large amount of cash short small
Megalodon teeth tend to be valued quite
low
the Megalodon had a killer smile
those teeth weren't just super massive
in order to feast regularly on large
prey the Meg had an impressive set of
276 feet that sat in five rows in its
mouth most fossilized teeth that have
been recovered show a significant amount
of wear on the tips and some have had
the tips completely broken off from
biting on the bones of its prey all
those teeth arranged in five rows served
as a backup system so that the Megalodon
would never run out as soon as it lost a
tooth another one would replace it
within 48 hours that way this massive
predator could feed his insatiable
appetite and munch on prey non-stop the
largest Megalodon tooth ever found which
measures at about 7 inches long is
almost 3 times larger than the teeth
you'll find in the great white sharks of
today the Megalodon sported 276 of these
giant and sharply serrated teeth that
could rip the flesh of dolphins whales
and possibly even other sharks according
to the Natural History Museum in London
scared yet well I am but don't go
running for the hills just yet Megalodon
has long been extinct despite
blockbuster hit movies like 2018 the Meg
and conspiracy theories running rampant
on the Internet these prehistoric sea
beasts no longer exist yep rest assured
that
Ladon did in fact go extinct 2.6 million
years ago and the proof is in the
scientific pudding my favorite flavor
about 2.6 million years ago marked the
beginning of the era known as the
Pleistocene at the beginning of this era
temperatures began to cool and glacier
started to form all over if you're
thinking this was the time of the ice
ages
you'd be right oh my friend due to the
planets falling temperatures things
started changing in the earth oceans for
one thing whale started migrating to
find more food landing them closer to
the poles being one of the megalodons
primary meal to goes it became harder
and harder for the humongous predator to
find whales to munch on perhaps this was
the reason for megalodons extinction
well that's what scientists thought up
until 2016 when dr. Catalina Pia Mentos
and her team of researchers came onto
the scene and said that this probably
wasn't the case at all well there's no
doubt that the Megalodon definitely went
extinct it probably wasn't because they
couldn't keep up with whales in the
cooler temperatures and that's because
Megalodon fossils have actually been
found in waters as cold as 33 degrees
Fahrenheit which means that these giant
sharks weren't afraid of ice cold
temperatures sure they typically
preferred a much cozier 53 to 80 degrees
setting but Pia mentos studies showed
that they could totally bare ice waters
this isn't all that hard to believe
since today sharks are actually mezzo
thermic meaning they're able to keep
their body temperature slightly warmer
people went surrounding water
they'd lie okay so if the whales new
migration patterns weren't what killed
the Megalodon species then what did like
with so many things
the answer is competition that's right
even though the Megalodon were ferocious
and scary they were actually other
flesh-eating predators sharing the ocean
that liked to eat a lot of the same
things that these giant sharks did talk
about a dog-eat-dog world or rather a
shark eat shirt shirt never mind you get
the point one of the megalodons biggest
competitors in the deep blue during the
mid mio scene era was the now extinct
genus of sperm whale known as the live
yacht and Mel Villa these prehistoric
sperm whales had shorter jaws than today
sperm whales and they were able to chomp
down on sharks and even other whales
yeah and these weren't the only
carnivorous whales that roamed the ocean
waters during this era
[Music]
[Applause]
McClendon was the biggest and baddest
shark of the ocean 23 million years ago
it could grow up to 60 feet and its jaw
bite was stronger than a t-rex's it was
a force to be reckoned with eating other
sharks whales and dolphins for breakfast
so you might think that there was
nothing that could stop it
but even this massive shark had enemies
and their fights could be lethal think
of a t-rex vs. Godzilla way out in the
middle of the ocean wearing life vests
duking it out and you get the picture
[Music]
well maybe not life vests those are from
the Flintstones period seto thuria sido
thuria was a baleen whale from the seat
othera dye family it lived in the mid
Miocene period to the early Pliocene
period and grew up to 15 feet fossil
records have revealed that sido thorium
would be megalodons top target Megalodon
would be massive compared to sita thuria
but Sita xxx had a few tricks of its
sleeve the very first whales had pointed
teeth for catching and killing other sea
animals leader Ahn Sita thorium evolved
and developed baleen a strong but
flexible material made of keratin which
caught small organisms and worked as a
strainer as it fed the small organisms
would have been caught in large enough
quantities to keep seed of thorium
satisfied this would keep seed of
thorium close to the surface and away
from Megalodon but when Sita thorium was
spotted by Megalodon there was no escape
Megalodon would dive down to look up at
its prey and then it would Ram Sita
thorium at high speed damaging vertebrae
in the process seto thorium would be too
stunned to be able to escape
and all's well that ends well zag o fire
verily this large predator was unknown
until geologists found an almost
complete Saiga fighter skeleton in 2016
on the shores of southern Italy it's
also referred to as a killer sperm whale
because of its strong similarities in
size to the killer whale and its close
relationship to the sperm whale Zygo
Feist saidar lived in the late miocene
period some 11 to 7 million years ago
and it cruised the Mediterranean region
from fossil records paleontologists have
gathered that Zygo Feist setter grew to
be 20 feet long it had an asymmetrical
cranium which is commonly associated
with high-frequency sound production and
echolocation
Zygo fighter used its echolocation to
find and hunt large prey their teeth
could range from 6 to 10 inches and they
had 14 teeth in their lower jaw and 13
on top since their teeth were large and
they had full jaw functionality it's
likely that they fed on large fish
dolphins small whales and cephalopods
such as squids and octopuses it's lethal
bite would have been its best chance
against Megalodon
[Music]
although Feist said er now all of I said
err was a predatory whale very similar
to modern-day sperm whales sperm whales
are the largest predators and the
largest toothed whales today hollow
fighter lived in the Miocene period back
then the country of Panama was
underwater and many species crossed from
the east coast of North America to the
west coast through a passageway the
passageway called the Central American
Seaway was also a favorite travel spot
for megladon all ofus adders reached a
length of 20 feet and weighed about 2400
pounds with these specifications anyone
can see that Megalodon was
much larger but a loaf eye setters would
swim in groups to repel attacks by giant
beasts like megladon in the hope of
being protected by the gore
oh my brig mph I said er should jens's
now brig mo Phi Center was a highly
predatory sperm whale the only known
fossil is a nearly complete skeleton
that is dated at 14 to 15 million years
old from it paleontologists gathered
that brig mo five-setter was 23 feet
long legs I go fight Center brig
malphite's header also had teeth and its
upper and lower jaws these powerful jaws
and their size set them at the top of
the food chain and they roam near the
coast of Japan like sperm whales it had
a sperma Ceti organ which gave it the
ability to use echolocation to find and
identify prey megalodons traveled all
the way around the world as evidenced by
the location of their fossils megalodons
and brig mo fighters swam the oceans at
the same time the Miocene period brig
mph I said er was a predator to fish
squid and other small whales but its
role could switch from predator to prey
when it faced Megalodon
[Music]
ran fo such us now renfa suchas is one
of the largest known crocodiles ever to
roam earth the world wouldn't even be
aware of the existence of Rafa such as
if it wasn't for the discovery of in
complete sets of fossils that are mostly
teeth and skulls Ram fascitis is
estimated to have been 26 to 36 feet
long it inhabited the Indian
subcontinent and like Megalodon it lived
in the Miocene period it's a relative of
the modern false Gauri all a native of
Peninsular Malaysia let the false Korea
it is believed to have had a longer and
thinner snout compared to other
crocodiles it also had multiple teeth to
capture its prey theory suggests that
Ram Phocis fed on fish and on occasion
much larger prey Rafa such as was such
an excellent swimmer thanks to its
strong and long tail given its massive
size it would go into rivers and oceans
to try to find enough food to sustain it
this is where it was likely to have
occasionally encountered Megalodon Ram
facetious and megladon
would have fought over the same food
given that Rafa such as had such a long
and strong bite it would have been a big
challenger to Megalodon
livvie inton melville a you might know
this whale by the name Leviathan
soon after researchers discovered Livia
tans fossils and assigned at the name
Leviathan they realized that the name
had already been taken by a mastodon a
century earlier
this caused the switch to the Hebrew
spelling of live yatin now live yatin
and Megalodon were two of the most
terrifying creatures to roam the oceans
and both live during the Miocene period
live yatin was a whale that was 60 feet
long and weighed up to 50 tonnes its
largest teeth were up to 14 inches long
a theory about live yachting's method of
haunting is that it was very similar to
megalodons it would dive deep and
headbutt its prey at fast speeds and its
target would be other whales Megalodon
and leviathan competed for the same food
and fought over turf
they both preferred to feed on baleen
whales like Sita thorium which we
mentioned earlier live yatin had the
longest teeth but Megalodon had the
strongest bite they were both of a
similar size and weight and had plenty
of reasons to fight each other so who do
you think would win in a fight it's
unclear if these two beasts actually
targeted each other but it is likely
that they butted heads over food
regardless of whether these predators
could win a battle against Megalodon or
not their existence put a big dent in
megalodons lifespan Megalodon was of
such a massive size that it needed over
2,500 pounds of food a day research
suggests that the increase in
competition for food from other
predators and the lack of prey might
have been a strong factor in megalodons
extinction so who do you think would win
a fight between live yatin and Megalodon
do you think any of these predators
could have taken down Megalodon tell us
your opinion in the comments by the end
of the Maya scene a new shark into the
picture and changed everything
it was the carcharodontosaurus new kid
on the block wasn't afraid to go
head-to-head with a mighty Megalodon
when it came to hunting for prey how do
scientists know this well teeth marks of
the Carcharodontosaurus time move
forward into the Pliocene era whales
were starting to disappear while there
were about 60 different whale species in
the previous Miocene age only 40 remain
by the time of the Pliocene many of
these whales had evolved and sported
baleen instead of teeth these bristle
looking things in the whale's mouth
serve as filtration system that helps
them catch more krill their favorite
food the krill they feed on a primarily
microscopic algae known as diatoms
but around 3 million years ago the many
different kinds of diatoms started to
diminish leaving only a few different
types well it's still not known why this
happened it could have been due to a
shift in ocean water circulation because
of this lack of diatoms there weren't as
many krill swimming around which in turn
left whales with empty bellies as these
whales slowly disappeared
did the megladon circle of life right at
this time the Megalodon had to put their
game faces on and fight even harder
against the great white sharks who were
smaller and faster it'd be like racing a
Ford Escape with a Porsche Carrera GT
catch my drift mmm-hmm with these great
white sharks being more agile and
smaller they required less food than the
Megalodon and that rightsiders is why
2.6 million years ago the very last
Megalodon roamed the oceans as the
scariest shark around giant blood hungry
predator or not there's always something
a little sad about species dying out
don't you think
but what if the McClendon had survived
the whale food shortage and continued to
thrive what today's oceans look
different well you'd be way less likely
to go swimming in the ocean am i right
well jokes aside today's marine life
would be a little different if the
Megalodon were still around for one
thing we may not have the massive whale
species we've come to know like the blue
whale these guys can measure up to 82
feet making them the biggest animal
we've ever seen on this earth they
managed to grow to such a hefty size
thanks to the fact that over a couple
million years these bigger whales
weren't hunted by the oceans new smaller
predators the great white shark and the
Orca without being on someone's dinner
plate larger species of whales continue
to grow and thrive becoming the massive
animals they are today
[Music]
while today's great white sharks aren't
even close to being as big as the
Megalodon they seem to be following in
its fin steps the great white grows
about three feet larger than its
ancestors that swam alongside the
Megalodon during the Pliocene on top of
that they seem to grow faster when
they're younger similar to how the
Megalodon dead does this mean that the
great white has the potential to become
as large and fierce as the Megalodon in
the future well with whales growing as
big as they are today and the great
white thriving inner oceans the next
Megalodon could be right around the
corner well considering that it took
millions of years for the Megalodon to
evolve and grow as big as they were in
their prime that's going to be one long
and distant corner
so there you have it scientific proof
that the Megalodon no longer exists
sorry to burst your bubble if you were
hoping otherwise it looks like the only
Megalodon you'll be seeing in the near
future will be on screen it's not
related to the great white shark another
well-known and equally feared shark
although now it seems like a puny little
runt is the great white which can be
found in the coastal areas of all major
oceans popular belief has it that the
great white shark is a descendant of the
Meg but that claim has been disproven
when the first fossilized teeth of the
Megalodon were discovered they place the
mighty shark in the same genus as the
great white but fossil discoveries that
have been made since show that the
Megalodon actually comes from a single
evolutionary line that can be traced 60
million years back to the odor discharge
the Megalodon had a powerful bite in
order to chew on the bones of its prey
the Meg needed to have a very powerful
bike to figure out how strong its bite
was a research group led by biologist
dr. Stephen row conducted simulations
and reported that the Megalodon could
bite down on his prey with twenty four
thousand to forty thousand pounds of
pressure
as for the Tyrannosaurus Rex it had just
twelve thousand eight hundred pounds of
bite force while the great white shark
has only four thousand pounds with
powerful jaws like that the Megalodon
could crush a small car in a second
though would probably break all of its
teeth in the process but no worries
they'd all grow back in a few days
[Music]
it's favorite dish was Wales giant
beasts have giant appetites and the Meg
was no exception
it had the Rome the seven seas in order
to meet its daily requirement of 25
hundred pounds of food so that means it
needed some really big braids to
accomplish that goal
while it feasted on just about anything
that dared cross its path like fish
seals and sea turtles whales were its
favorite dish scientists know that the
Megalodon loved to eat whales because
fossilized whale bones have been found
with bite marks that match the Megalodon
teeth experts theorize that the Meg
would dive deep into the ocean stalk its
prey from below and ram the whale at
full speed fracturing its bones shocking
the poor thing and thus disabling it
their nurseries have been discovered
when the Megalodon was ready to give
birth it would travel the shallow waters
where large predators couldn't follow
scientists have found several of these
nurseries in the bone valley region of
Florida the Calvert Cliffs in Maryland
and the Gatton formation in Panama to
name a few and experts know these spots
are nurseries because they found one and
a half inch long baby Megalodon teeth
there but before your oh how cute meter
starts to go off you should know that
baby megalodons were about six and a
half feet long at birth even at that
size they still needed to be protected
from other big sharks and whales
so like modern sharks Megalodon young
probably stayed in the nursery until
they were big enough to stand their own
ground against larger predators
[Applause]
it was top of the food chain the
Megalodon was the top predator of the
ocean until it wasn't the giant shark
went extinct 2.6 million years ago and
there are several theories as to why
this happened one of them suggests
climate changes to blame the Megalodon
would swim in warm waters but climate
change would have decreased the
temperature of the oceans over the years
until the Meg could no longer survive in
the cold waters another theory claims
that it was increased competition from
large predators that left this massive
shark without any food a 2017 study
published in the Journal of paleo
geography paleoclimatology and paleo
ecology claims that the Megalodon met
its end when its prey went extinct this
study theorizes that with a
disappearance of prey the predator that
feasts on it would go extinct as well
since small baleen whales went extinct
it's likely that the Megalodon soon
followed now let's take a moment to be
thankful that humans weren't around
during the Meigs reign but would you
prefer that the Megalodon was still
alive do you know any other interesting
facts about this mega shark tell us in
the comments below and don't forget to
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
few things terrify people less than
sharks quick and Sharptooth these
predators often appear in the nightmares
of beachgoers at the same time the
dangers that sharks present fascinate
people dozens of films depict these
bloodthirsty and formidable creatures
people marvel at their power strength
and size indeed their size can be really
impressive
great white shark 23 feet long the
average length of a great white is 23
feet however the largest shark people
have come across was 26 feet long Wow
that's half the length of a basketball
court despite such an impressive size
great white sharks can move at a speed
of 35 miles per hour which is really
fast for underwater traffic the bite of
a great white has a terrifying force of
1.8 tons per square inch that's ten
times more forceful than a lion's bite
as for the teeth themselves a great
white has 5 rows of teeth each row
contains 40 60 and each tooth is of a
size similar to a human palm with the
length of 3.5 inches by the way these
guys don't ever get cavities hundreds of
teeth can fall out and regrow within a
shark's lifetime lucky them female
sharks grow to be much larger than males
at maturity a great white can reach a
weight of a thousand five hundred to
2,400 pounds and now brace yourself the
heaviest great white shark on record
weighed an epic seven thousand 328
pounds there's almost no place on earth
where you won't have an opportunity to
meet a great white shark these animals
hunt along the coasts of all the
continents well except for Antarctica as
the water there is too cold the
temperature great whites prefer ranges
from 54 degrees Fahrenheit to 75 degrees
Fahrenheit but if you're really eager to
make the acquaintance of a great white
shark come to Dyer Island in South
Africa this place is also called shark
alley and since most great white sharks
choose exactly this location for life
you can see why researchers are sure
that great white sharks have been
roaming the seas for the last 16 million
years perhaps even more and while
scientists used to believe that a great
whites life expectancy didn't exceed 25
years new research proves that these
predators typically live up to 70 years
Pacific sleeper shark 23.6 feet long
Pacific sleeper sharks look unlike any
other shark their body is shaped like a
torpedo
they have a wide blunt head and their
mouth is pretty small the biggest
representatives of this species can grow
as long as 23 feet one more thing that
makes specific sleepers stand apart is
their color it's not that silver in
white shade you'd expect from a proper
shark dark gray or even black helps
Pacific sharks blend in with the sunless
depths in which they live in addition
Pacific sleepers have tiny eyes which
are most often colonized by parasites
these nightmarish miniscule creatures
occupy the outer layer of the shark's
eye and much on the tissue making the
sharks almost blind luckily they have a
perfect sense of smell to help them not
to starve it's probably obvious that
Pacific sharks live in the Pacific Ocean
but while research is used to think that
this species live only in the north some
of these gigantic predators have been
spotted near Mexico and even Taiwan
tiger shark 24 feet long the tiger shark
is one of the largest shark species in
the world their average length can reach
16 feet but the largest specimen reached
24 feet they can weigh 800 to 1500
pounds which is heavier than the average
horse why exactly are they called tiger
sharks it's because when a baby shark is
born it's covered with dark stripes
resembling those of a tiger
unfortunately this pretty pattern fades
when a shark becomes older just like
their namesakes tiger sharks are
excellent hunters besides using their
perfect eyesight and developed sense of
smell these sharks have one more
advantage near their snouts
are special pores filled with the
substance that resembles jelly this
substance can sense electric fields all
living beings give off some kind of
electric field thus a tiger shark can
always find its prey the most unique
thing about a tiger shark is its team
they are not just super sharp they also
have saw-like
edges these teeth are so strong that
they can easily bite through a clamp or
a sea turtle
uh-oh one more unwanted image to make
our nightmares more exciting basking
shark 39 feet long the basking shark is
the second largest shark alive today
surprisingly you don't have to scatter
away as soon as you see this bus-sized
giant basking sharks are gentle
creatures whose diet consists of fish
eggs plankton and other tiny organisms
basking sharks feed by filtering water
that's why their mouths are simply
colossal adult sharks have 3 foot wide
Moz in only one hour a shark can filter
more than 1800 tons of water through its
gills wide basking sharks this name
appeared thanks to the habit these
peaceful leviathans have of lounging
near the surface of the water and
seemingly basking in sunlight in fact
soaking up some Sun isn't their main
goal the higher the latitudes are the
more plankton congregates their whale
shark 40 feet long if you ever dreamed
of meeting the largest fish in the world
here you go let us introduce the whale
shark although they are called whale
sharks these creatures have nothing in
common with whales but honestly speaking
they don't resemble your usual shark
either the character of these giants is
docile and calm and they don't present
any real danger to humans whale sharks
can grow to a whopping 46 feet long and
their weight can reach 12 tons just like
basking sharks whale sharks sieve the
tiny marine organisms through their
gills they also eat small fish squid and
krill
does this make whale sharks toothless
not at all in fact each of these
creatures has a mouth full of 3,000 tiny
teeth which in all fairness they don't
use another thing that separates whale
sharks from others is the way they swim
instead of using their tail they move
their body from side to side well you
might be unlucky enough to come across
some of these monsters in our modern
seas and oceans but what about the real
Giants we mean sharks that have become
extinct but terrorized marine
inhabitants many centuries ago
treetog Sirena 25 feet long credo Sirena
is also known as the Ginsu shark this
creature roamed the season oceans 100
million years ago in the Cretaceous
period
despite this fact they look pretty
similar to modern sharks these predators
reached a weight of a thousand to 2,000
pounds and could grow as long as 25 feet
they had incredibly sharp teeth not
unlike knives
therefore there died included not only
fish and smaller marine animals but also
a random dinosaur for example a
tylosaurus owed us 30 feet long this
massive shark reigned over the oceans 60
to 45 million years ago Autodesk's could
grow up to 30 feet in length and weigh
more than 4,000 pounds that's the weight
of the average new car in the US this
predator could also boast razor-sharp
4-inch long teeth with the help of these
daggers auto dust feasted on big fish
and whales helicoprion 30 feet long
helicoprion was not only one of the
biggest but also one of the most
uncommon prehistoric sharks it lived
about 290 million years ago these sharks
got their name helicoprion from the
greek for spyro saw thanks to the highly
unusual coils of teeth lining their jaws
those coils tended to unfurl like a
table saw crushing their prey try to get
this image out of your head now Tyco
does 30 feet long
Tyco does which means folded teeth in
Greek lived 90 to 60 million years ago
this was a massive shark that could
reach 30 feet in length with a weight
that varied between one and two thousand
pounds this shark was different from
other prehistoric sharks because it had
large teeth which however were flat due
to this fact Tycho das was a
bottom-feeder with a diet of shellfish
and mollusks have you ever seen a shark
tell us about your experience in the
comments below and if the biggest
predators of the oceans have managed to
impress you give us a thumbs up
[Music]